
# keyword  firewalld.zones

man 5 firewalld.zones
man 5 firewalld.richlanguage


Understanding Firewalld in Multi-Zone Configurations:
  https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/understanding-firewalld-multi-zone-configurations

centos7&redhat 之 firewalld 详细介绍配置:
  https://www.cnblogs.com/fatt/p/6656262.html


名称: firewalld.zones - firewalld zones

说明:
   What is a zone?
       A network zone defines the level of trust for network connections. This is a one to many relation, which means that a connection can only be part of one zone, but a zone can be
       used for many network connections.

          一个 network zone 定义了 network connections 的 信任级别, 这是一个 1 对 多 的关系,
          其意味着 a connection 仅能 作为 唯一的 zone 的 一部分, 但 a zone 可以 被用于 多个 network connections..

       The zone defines the firewall features that are enabled in this zone:

       Predefined services
           A service is a combination of port and/or protocol entries. Optionally netfilter helper modules can be added and also a IPv4 and IPv6 destination address.

       Ports and protocols
           Definition of tcp or udp ports, where ports can be a single port or a port range.

       ICMP blocks
           Blocks selected Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) messages. These messages are either information requests or created as a reply to information requests or in error
           conditions.

       Masquerading
           The addresses of a private network are mapped to and hidden behind a public IP address. This is a form of address translation.

       Forward ports
           A forward port is either mapped to the same port on another host or to another port on the same host or to another port on another host.

       Rich language rules
           The rich language extends the elements (service, port, icmp-block, masquerade, forward-port and source-port) with additional source and destination addresses, logging,
           actions and limits for logs and actions. It can also be used for host or network white and black listing (for more information, please have a look at
           firewalld.richlanguage(5)).

       For more information on the zone file format, please have a look at firewalld.zone(5).


   Which zones are available?
       Here are the zones provided by firewalld sorted according to the default trust level of the zones from untrusted to trusted:

       drop
           Any incoming network packets are dropped, there is no reply. Only outgoing network connections are possible.

       block
           Any incoming network connections are rejected with an icmp-host-prohibited message for IPv4 and icmp6-adm-prohibited for IPv6. Only network connections initiated within this
           system are possible.

       public
           For use in public areas. You do not trust the other computers on networks to not harm your computer. Only selected incoming connections are accepted.

       external
           For use on external networks with masquerading enabled especially for routers. You do not trust the other computers on networks to not harm your computer. Only selected
           incoming connections are accepted.

       dmz
           For computers in your demilitarized zone that are publicly-accessible with limited access to your internal network. Only selected incoming connections are accepted.

       work
           For use in work areas. You mostly trust the other computers on networks to not harm your computer. Only selected incoming connections are accepted.

       home
           For use in home areas. You mostly trust the other computers on networks to not harm your computer. Only selected incoming connections are accepted.

       internal
           For use on internal networks. You mostly trust the other computers on the networks to not harm your computer. Only selected incoming connections are accepted.

       trusted
           All network connections are accepted.


   Which zone should be used?
       A public WIFI network connection for example should be mainly untrusted, a wired home network connection should be fairly trusted. Select the zone that best matches the network
       you are using.

   How to configure or add zones?
       To configure or add zones you can either use one of the firewalld interfaces to handle and change the configuration: These are the graphical configuration tool firewall-config,
       the command line tool firewall-cmd or the D-Bus interface. Or you can create or copy a zone file in one of the configuration directories.  /usr/lib/firewalld/zones is used for
       default and fallback configurations and /etc/firewalld/zones is used for user created and customized configuration files.

   How to set or change a zone for a connection?
       The zone is stored into the ifcfg of the connection with ZONE= option. If the option is missing or empty, the default zone set in firewalld is used.

       If the connection is controlled by NetworkManager, you can also use nm-connection-editor to change the zone.

       For the addion or change of interfaces that are not under control of NetworkManager: firewalld tries to change the ZONE setting in the ifcfg file, if an ifcfg file exists that
       is using the interface.

       Only for the removal of interfaces that are not under control of NetworkManager: firewalld is not trying to change the ZONE setting in the ifcfg file. This is needed to make
       sure that an ifdown of the interface will not result in a reset of the zone setting to the default zone. Only the zone binding is then removed in firewalld then.



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
如下内容来自: Understanding Firewalld in Multi-Zone Configurations
  https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/understanding-firewalld-multi-zone-configurations

  - Firewalld Design Goals

    firewalld 通过 the source IP and/or network interface 把 incoming traffic 分类到了 zones 中.
    每个 zone 具有其自己的 configuration 来 基于 指定的 条件来 accept 或 deny packets.

    firewalld 简化了 iptables 的语法, 其使得 指定 services 更加容易, 因为 它 通过使用 the name of the service 来指定 而非 其 port(s) and protocol(s), 例如:
    使用 服务名 samba 而不是 使用 UDP ports 137 和 138 和 TCP ports 139 和 445. firewalld 通过 移除 iptables 中的 the dependence on the order of statements
    进一步简化了语法.


    - Zones
      The top layer of organization in firewalld is zones. 如果 A packet 匹配 一个 zone 关联的
      network interface or IP/mask source, 该 packet 就是这个 zone 的一部分.
      有过个预定义的 zone 可用:

          [root@basic ~]# firewall-cmd --get-zones
          block dmz drop external home internal public trusted work

       An active zone 就是 配置了 an interface and/or a source 的 任意 zone. 要列出 active zones:

          [root@basic ~]# firewall-cmd --get-active-zones
          public
            interfaces: ens33

    - Interfaces:

      Interfaces 是 硬件 或 虚拟网卡适配器(hardware and virtual network adapters) 的 system's names, 如上例所见.
      All active interfaces 将会 分配(assigned) 给 zones, 即可以是 default zone, 也可以是 一个  user-specified 的 zone.
      但是，an interface 不能 被 分配 给 多个zones.

      In its default configuration, firewalld 会 将 all interfaces 与 the public zone 配对, 且 不会 为 任何 zones 设置 sources.
      其结果是, the public zone 就成为了唯一 的 active zone.


    - Sources
      Sources are incoming IP address ranges, 其 也可以被 分配(assigned) 给 zones.
      A source (or overlapping sources) 不能被分配 给 多个 zones. 否则 会导致 未定义的行为(undefined behavior),
      因为 其不能清除的知道 which rules 应该 被 应用 于 该 source.

      for every packet there will be a zone with a matching interface, but there won't necessarily be a zone with a matching source.
      This indicates some form of precedence with priority going to the more specific source zones,
      but more on that later. First, let's inspect how the public zone is configured:

            # firewall-cmd --zone=public --list-all
                public (default, active)
                  interfaces: eno1 eno2
                  sources:
                  services: dhcpv6-client ssh
                  ports:
                  masquerade: no
                  forward-ports:
                  icmp-blocks:
                  rich rules:
            # firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --get-target
                  default


        Going line by line through the output:

            public (default, active)  indicates that the public zone is the default zone (interfaces default to it when they come up),
                                      and it is active because it has at least one interface or source associated with it.

            interfaces: eno1 eno2 lists the interfaces associated with the zone.

            sources: lists the sources for the zone. There aren't any now, but if there were, they would be of the form xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx/xx.

            services: dhcpv6-client ssh lists the services allowed through the firewall. You can get an exhaustive list of firewalld's
                                        defined services by executing firewall-cmd --get-services.

            ports: lists port destinations allowed through the firewall. This is useful if you need to allow a service that isn't defined in firewalld.

            masquerade: no indicates that IP masquerading is disabled for this zone. If enabled, this would allow IP forwarding, with your computer acting as a router.

            forward-ports: lists ports that are forwarded.

            icmp-blocks: a blacklist of blocked icmp traffic.

            rich rules: advanced configurations, processed first in a zone.

            default is the target of the zone, which determines the action taken on a packet that matches the zone yet isn't explicitly handled by one of the above settings.



      - Targets
          When a zone processes a packet due to its source or interface, but there is no rule that explicitly
          handles the packet, the target of the zone determines the behavior:

                -- ACCEPT: accept the packet.

                -- %%REJECT%%: reject the packet, returning a reject reply.

                -- DROP: drop the packet, returning no reply.

                -- default: don't do anything. The zone washes its hands of the problem, and kicks it "upstairs".


      - Precedence
          Active zones fulfill two different roles. 与 interface(s) 关联着的 Zones 作为 interface zones,
          与 source(s) 关联着的 zones 作为 source zones (a zone could fulfill both roles)
          Firewalld handles a packet in the following order:

              1. The corresponding source zone. Zero or one such zones may exist. If the source zone deals with the
                 packet because the packet satisfies a rich rule, the service is whitelisted,
                 or the target is not default, we end here. Otherwise, we pass the packet on.

              2. The corresponding interface zone. Exactly one such zone will always exist.
                 If the interfacezone deals with the packet, we end here. Otherwise, we pass the packet on.

              3. The firewalld default action. Accept icmp packets and reject everything else.

          The take-away message is that source zones have precedence over interface zones. Therefore, the general design pattern
          for multi-zoned firewalld configurations is to create a privileged source zone to allow specific IP's
          elevated access to system services and a restrictive interface zone to limit the access of everyone else.

          得出的信息 就是 source zones 具有比 interface zones 更高的优先级. 因此, 对于 multi-zoned firewalld configurations 的
          通用的 设计模式 即使 创建(create) 一个 特权的 source zone 来 allow specific IP's elevated access to system services 和
          a restrictive interface zone to limit the access of everyone else.

      - A Simple Multi-Zoned Example       见  https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/understanding-firewalld-multi-zone-configurations


      - A Practical Multi-Zoned Example    见  https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/understanding-firewalld-multi-zone-configurations
          ------------------------------------
          (实际设置的时候, 要注意先后顺序, 不要将自己锁在门外, 如下示例旨在演示 Multi-Zoned 的设计技巧, 所以没有对 命令的顺序 给与更多考虑)
          // 如下的命令 解决的问题：允许全世界的 http and https 访问,
          // your organization (1.1.0.0/16) and workgroup (1.1.1.0/8) to have ssh access, and your workgroup to have samba access.

          # firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --remove-service=dhcpv6-client
          # firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --remove-service=ssh
          # firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --add-service=http
          # firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --add-service=https

          # firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=internal --remove-service=mdns
          # firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=internal --remove-service=samba-client
          # firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=internal --remove-service=dhcpv6-client
          # firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=internal --add-source=1.1.0.0/16

          # firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=internal --add-rich-rule='rule family=ipv4 source address="1.1.1.0/8" service name="samba" accept'
          # firewall-cmd --reload

          # firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --set-target=DROP
          # firewall-cmd --reload

          # firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=internal --add-rich-rule='rule protocol value="icmp" accept'
          # firewall-cmd --reload

          // 查看配置结果
          # firewall-cmd --zone=public --list-all
          # firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=public --get-target
          # firewall-cmd --zone=internal --list-all
          # firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=internal --get-target
          ------------------------------------

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

