

# keyword init

man 5 init


作用: init - Upstart init daemon job configuration

概要:
       /etc/init/

说明:
       On startup, the Upstart init(8) daemon reads its job configuration from the /etc/init directory, and watches for future changes using inotify(7).

       To be considered by Upstart, files in this directory must have a recognized suffix and may also be present in sub-directories.  There are two recognized suffixes:

       ·   Files ending in .conf are called configuration files, or simply "conf files" for short.  These are the primary vehicle for specifying a job.

       ·   Files  ending  in  .override  are called override files.  If an override file is present, the stanzas it contains take precedence over those equivalently named
           stanzas in the corresponding configuration file contents for a particular job.  The main use for override files is to modify how a job will run without  having
           to modify its configuration file directly.  See the section Override File Handling below for further details.

       A job can thus be defined by either:

       · A single configuration file.

       · A single configuration file and a single override file.

       Unless explicitly stated otherwise, any reference to a jobs configuration can refer both to a configuration file or an override file.

       Each configuration file defines the template for a single service (long-running process or daemon) or task (short-lived process).

       Note that a configuration file is not itself a job: it is a description of an environmenta job could be run in.  A job is the runtime embodiment of a configuration
       file.

       The configuration file name as displayed by Upstart and associated tooling is taken from its relative path within the directory without the extension.  For example
       a configuration file /etc/init/rc-sysinit.conf is named rc-sysinit, while a configuration file /etc/init/net/apache.conf is named net/apache.  Since override files
       only modify the way a configuration file is interpreted, they are not named.

       Configuration files are plain text and should not be executable.


   Configuration File Format
       Each line begins with a configuration stanza and continues until either the end of the line or a line containing a closing stanza.  Line breaks within a stanza are
       permitted within single or double quotes, or if preceeded by a blackslash.

       If a stanza is duplicated, the last occurence will be used. Unrecognized stanzas will generate parse errors, which will stop a job from running.

       Stanzas  and  their  arguments  are delimited by whitespace, which consists of one or more space or tab characters which are otherwise ignored unless placed within
       single or double quotes.

       Comments begin with a ‘#’ and continue until the end of the line.  Blank lines and lines consisting only of whitespace or comments are ignored.


更多详细信息见 man 5 init

